# anarchy.website

Welcome to anarchy.website, an archive of works written by Una J. Ada, a.k.a.
Trewbot, f.k.a. Trevor J. Hoglund. Some topics of previous or upcoming works
include absurdism, accelerationism, anarchism, antifascism, blockchain,
cryptography, decentralization, discrete mathematics, feminism, gender nihilism,
machine learning, metaphysics, prefigurative politics, prison abolition, quantum
electrodynamics, science fiction, self-theory, transhumanism, technogaianism, et
cetera.


## [Introduction to Syndicalism](https://anarchy.website/2017/10/14/syndicalism)

**Oct. 14, 2017, [All That Is Left](https://atil.xyz) [Issue
001](https://atil.xyz/issue/001)**
While a sentiment of anti-authoritarianism born of a distaste for corporatism
and other modern manifestations of centralized capitalist governments lends
itself quite cleanly to the ideas of anarchism, what is not immediately clear...

## [Playing an FPS on a Drawing Tablet](https://anarchy.website/2016/11/19/fps-drawing-tablet)

**Nov. 19, 2016**
Let’s say you have a drawing tablet for your computer, like, one with no screen
and a pen. I don’t really care why or how you do, but let’s say you do. You can
use it as a mouse, move the cursor around, click on things, takes a bit to...


## [The feasibility of spontaneously morphing into an octopus](https://anarchy.website/2016/02/05/octopodes)

**Feb. 5, 2016, [Student Voice](http://uwrfvoice.com) [Volume 102, Issue
13](http://uwrfvoice.com/pdf/160205studentvoice.pdf)**
This argument has been deemed quite controversial: is it possible for one to
simply become an octopus without outside forces acting upon them? To start off,
one might ask if this is likely, the answer to which is clearly ‘no.’ While...


## [A student’s guide to pencils](https://anarchy.website/2015/12/02/pencils)

**Dec. 2, 2015, [Student Voice](http://uwrfvoice.com) [Volume 102, Issue
11](http://uwrfvoice.com/pdf/151204studentvoice.pdf)**
Pencils are pencils, but to say all pencils were created equal is a stretch of
the imagination that one should not be so willing to make. What exactly is a
pencil? Here we shall assume that a pencil is a utensil that utilizes...


## [General Relativity's Astronomical Effects](https://anarchy.website/2015/11/18/einstein)

**Nov. 18, 2015, [Student Voice](http://uwrfvoice.com) [Volume 102, Issue
10](http://uwrfvoice.com/pdf/151120studentvoice.pdf)**
Four score and another score ago, Einstein introduced the idea of general
relativity. Well, that’s when he presented the results at the Prussian Academy
of Science. Unlike previous models for gravity and such, this relativity...


## [Office chair provides fun, convenience, comfort](https://anarchy.website/2015/10/29/chair)

**Oct. 29, 2015, [Student Voice](http://uwrfvoice.com) [Volume 102, Issue
7](http://uwrfvoice.com/pdf/151030studentvoice.pdf)**
The UW-River Falls campus classrooms are sprinkled with a wide assortment of
differing sorts of chairs. Many classes have those odd plastic ones with the
slits in the back, which are probably there to help it flex? Whatever....


## [UWRF SPS Visits 3M Super Science Saturday](https://anarchy.website/2015/10/08/sps-at-3m)

**Oct. 08, 2015, [Student Voice](http://uwrfvoice.com) [Volume 102, Issue
4](http://uwrfvoice.com/pdf/151009studentvoice.pdf)**
On Saturday, Oct. 3, several members of the UW–River Falls Society of Physics
Students Chapter attended 3M’s Super Science Saturday...


## [The Road](https://anarchy.website/2015/10/06/the-road)

**Oct. 06, 2015**
The dog walks along the road...


## [Sunny Day](https://anarchy.website/2015/09/04/sunny-day)

**Sep. 04, 2015**
It was a sunny day, not that I could be bothered to give a damn about things in
the sky. I had my eyes on the prize and not much more. One way or another I was
to end the day $0.15 richer...


## [Fanfest](https://anarchy.website/2014/07/13/fanfest)

**Jul. 13, 2014**
So, as many Americans are thoroughly aware, there is this little baseball game
things going on sometime within the next month. I happen to live nearby the
venue at which it will be held, as well as the hometown of one of the...
