---
title: Calculating Heat Efficiency on Campus Using Infrared Imaging
---

# Calculating Heat Efficiency on Campus Using Infrared Imaging

> **Abstract.** Using data collected with an infrared camera, a mean external
temperature for any given building can be found and subsequently compared to
that of other buildings or the building’s own internal temperature. This data
gives a statistical basis for determining the heat efficiency of a building.

## Introduction

With the current pushes to maintain a green campus and common complaints about
certain buildings’ inconsistency in temperature, we decided that we would find a
way to explore just how much heat was lost by each building. The Physics
Department already had a FLUKE Ti45 in its possession, leading to the simple
conclusion that we could just point the infrared camera at the buildings and see
how hot the outsides were compared to the background temperature. So as to
reduce the amount of people that would interfere with our numbers and increase
the contrast between the buildings and the outside temperature, the study was
conducted over the course of January 2016. Due to the constraints of the
equipment, measurements could only be taken when the air temperature was greater
than 14°F, as such it was decided that the data should be collected with a
background temperature of 22°F. We collected data on six buildings: North Hall,
South Hall, Centennial Science Hall, the University Center, James H. Ames
Suites, and Prucha Hall.

## Methodology

In order to collect consistent data from building to building, images were taken
of each building in a manner that would attempt to cover the most amount of the
outside of the building while reducing overlap. This style is admittedly
imperfect and could contribute too many errors in the data.

Once the data was collected from the camera, it was organized into folders by
building. The camera recorded data as .is2 files (which are fairly standards
among infrared cameras) that we opened using Fluke’s SmartView 3.11. Once opened
in this program the images can be centered over the visible color images that
the Ti45 also recorded, and the spectrum used to display temperature was
standardized. For all images in this project we used the High Contrast settings,
with the minimum set to 16°F and the maximum to 70°F (this only effects the
coloration of the photos, not the collected data). Once the images are
standardized were then be exported in bulk as .csv files, which are all then
saved in the same folders as the pictures

The analysis of this data was done using Origin 2016. To begin with, we imported
all the .csv files from a particular building. In each of these files, which are
then considered worksheets within Origin, we removed the header data. This data
is used to define the position of each pixel, which we did not use as part of
our analysis. Each worksheet’s columns were then stacked, creating a single
column worksheet. All of these worksheets were then appended together (selecting
only column B(Y) in the appending dialog), and this resulting worksheet’s
columns then stacked as well.

This single column worksheet is what we considered our data set. A histogram
could be made from this set at this point, which is what we considered the
“complete” data. However, this data included quite a few points from the
background of the pictures, which created a noticeable bump on the histogram.
This means that there were two bumps on a complete data histogram: the first
being around the mean background temperature, the second being the mean
temperature of the building itself. To focus the results and find a statistical
mean, we truncated all the data in the column below a specific temperature. We
chose 26°F as the standard cutoff point, in most of the histograms we saw early
on, this was the point at which the first bump ended and the second began.
Histograms that this was done to are labeled “Truncated below 26°F” (some graphs
may have used a different cutoff point and are labeled respectively). A normal
curve fit was applied to these histograms to visualize their general spread.

## Results

For each building we compiled the truncated data into a histogram with a bin
size automated by Origin (typically 2°F). We also calculated means and standard
deviations of the truncated data. We can then use these values to graph a normal
curve for each building, which is then plotted over the respective histogram. To
create a readable comparison between each of the buildings, these normal curves
can be graphed together, as seen in Figure 1.

![Combined Data](/assets/img/ir-combined.png)

**FIGURE 1.** The normal curves derived from the data collected from each
building graphed atop each other to give a general idea of how each building’s
temperature compares. The probability here represents the percentage of points
(after truncations) in the data that measured a given temperature.

The amount of pictures taken varies significantly by building, this is mainly
due to the size and complexity of each structure. As such, knowing the amount of
images could be useful in interpreting the data collected. This could possibly
be used to calculate an uncertainty value on the measured temperatures, but for
our purposes we will simply be using an estimate made by comparing the
variations in the surrounding air temperature. The statistics for the data
collected from each building are in Table 1.

Building|Number of Points|Truncation Point|Mean|Std Dev
:-----|:-----:|:-----:|:-----:|:-----:
North Hall|435,309|26,692|36.5°F|5.3°F
South Hall|188,896|22,305|33.8°F|4.3°F
Centennial Science Hall|854,305|9,576|36.8°F|5.2°F
University Center|528,715|28,086|41.3°F|5.8°F
James H. Ames Suites|359,401|5,400|36.0°F|3.8°F
Prucha Hall|123.354|30,247|37.6°F|4.8°F

**TABLE 1.** The number of points in this table is the amount of pixels
collected from each picture of a given building; the truncation point is then
the amount of points removed when clearing out the background of the images.

### North Hall

We began the data collection with North Hall due to the simplicity of the
building’s layout, which can be approximated as a rectangle. This was also the
building whose internal temperature inconsistency inspired this project. To give
a decent overlook of the building’s data, we can use the histogram created from
the combination of all its images, as seen here in Figure 2.

![North Hall Histogram](/assets/img/ir-nh.png)

**FIGURE 2.** A histogram of North Hall’s data after all points below 26°F were
removed. The number atop the normal curve denotes the value of the mean. The
scale would appear unintuitive due to dead pixels on the IR camera recording
significantly higher temperatures than the actual value.

![W](/assets/img/ir-nh-west.png)|![E](/assets/img/ir-nh-east.png)
:-----:|:-----:
(a)|(b)

**FIGURE 3.** As a general comparison of what factors contributed to the data,
we can compare an image of the west side of North Hall (a) with one from the
east (b). The east appears much more crowded and cool, whereas the more open
area on the west side appears much warmer, including the noticeable area of the
background air.

Given that the air temperature at the time was approximately 24°F, we find a
difference of 12.5°F between the air and the building’s mean temperature. We
could not determine any usable control measurements for this data. However, this
data can be compared to that of other buildings or used to analyze specific
locations on the building.

When measuring temperature using infrared, it is paramount to note the amount of
interference we can get from the area surrounding the building we want to
measure. Much of this interference can be attributed to the inherent properties
of heat, whereas taking measurements in a warmer area will make whatever is
being measured look warmer. This effect is quite noticeable for buildings, such
as North Hall, whose sides are in different types of environments, as seen in
Figure 3. The west side of the building is facing a large, open parking lot,
with a lot of exposure to the sun and surrounding environment. On the other
hand, the east side faces a much smaller lot, decorated with tree and otherwise
surrounded by a residential area where it would be exposed to light and heat
much less.

## South Hall

The next building to be measured was South Hall, which is directly across the
street from North Hall. South Hall ended up having the lowest mean temperature
of the six buildings that we measured. It should also be noted that this
building had the second least amount of data measured. Figure 4 contains a
histogram of all the images collected of South Hall after truncation.

![South Hall Data](/assets/img/ir-sh.png)

**Figure 4.** A histogram of South Hall’s data after all point below 26°F were
removed. Again the mean temperature is listed above the peak and the scale is
skewed to the right due to the dead pixels. 
