---
author: uja
layout: post
title: ATIL Issue 001 Glossary
tags: atil glossary
---

*This post was published in [All That Is Left](https://atil.xyz)
[Issue 001](https://atil.xyz/issue/001) as
["Glossary."](https://atil.xyz/issue/001.pdf)*

**Anarchism** - Society whose structures are built around non-hierarchical (or
horizontal) and voluntary organization rather than government rule and
enforcement.

**Bourgeoisie** - Capitalist class which owns the means of production.

**Capitalism** - Economic system in which the means of production are privately
rather than publicly (or collectively) owned.

**Class** - Grouping of people based on their social and/or economic standing.

**Commodity** - Material or product to be sold. **Commodity production** refers
to the usage of the means of production to create commodities.

**Commune** - Collective with shared resources, possessions, and work, generally
without a central controlling body or government.

**Communism** - Society in which all resources are collectively owned and
accessed by individuals based on necessity rather than economic accessibility.

**Confederation** - Voluntary union of several states/governments.

**Corporatism** - Society organized by corporations or other large groups based.

**Cultural Revolution** - Shift in culture to match with a shift in
infrastructure.

**Ecology** - Study of interactions of organisms or people.

**Exploitation** - Mistreatment of workers for the purpose of extracting value
from their labor.

**Federation** - Union of several states/governments which are each obligated to
remain within the union by treaty/law.

**Feminism** - Promotion of equal treatment for people of all genders and
opposition to any system that leads to inequality between genders.

**Feudalism** - (In Tsarist Russia) Society in which workers live and work on
land owned by a landowner to whom they must pay significant portions of their
income.

**Hierarchy** - Structure in which there are multiple levels of power such that
a higher level would  have control/influence over lower levels.

**Ideology** - Set of ideas and beliefs about economic, political, and social
theory.

**Market** - System in which products are bought and sold.

**Means of Production** - Tools and resources required for the creation of
value, such as factory machinery and minerals.

**Peasantry** - Laborer class under feudalism, live, work, and pay rent on land
owned by a landowner.

**Political Economy** - Study of relationship between politics (government and
law) and economy (production and trade).

**Proletariat** - Laborer class under capitalism.

**Property** - Something that belongs to or is a part of a person, group, or
thing, physical or conceptual. **Private Property** is property that is
exclusively controlled by a non-government group or person, where the government
enforces this group's control.

**Reformism** - Movement towards socialism by enacting small changes in current
political institutions over time.

**Revolution** - Movement towards socialism by abrupt seizure of political
power, not necessarily through violent insurrection.

**Sectarianism** - Discrimination by an individual or group of individuals
within a certain subdivision (or sect) based on association with another
subdivision of the same overarching group.

**Socialism** - Society in which the means of production are publicly or
cooperatively controlled, often by way of democracy and government ownership.

**Trade Union** - Organization of laborers of a specific trade working towards
goals of increased pay, benefits, and/or working conditions.

**Vanguard** - (In Leninism) Groups within in a society that are most
class-conscious and politically aware that build organizations around which the
working class builds movements.

**Wage Labor** - System in which workers trade their labor with the owners of
the means of production in exchange for wages determined by a market.
