---
author: trewbot
layout: post
tags: law anarchism acab
title: All Cops Are Bastards
---

All cops are bastards. Yes, all cops. I state this as neither an anecdotal
impulse nor a statistical generalization; it is a fundamental critique of the
very structure that is not only the modern but also any given historical and
even theoretical conception of law enforcement.

The simplest argument, the one in my experience most commonly lined up for its
brevity and thus utility in the ever present [Twitter][3] discourse[^2], is that
cops serve to enforce law, regardless of the content of law, and so in the case
where there exists even a single unjust law they are sworn to uphold it. This,
of course, simply states that cops are the apparatus thru which the unjust whims
of legislature take physical form. Perhaps Mike Isaacson ([@VulgarEconomics][1])
stated it best with "There is no law; there is only enforcement."[^1] A law is
a mere concept, liberally it's a directive, a statement of intent by the
serving lawmakers be they elected or appointed thru some archaic hereditary
ritual. In turn this concept becomes a reality by means of its enforcement, be
it passive as a bureaucratic measure or active as is implemented by law
enforcement. One could then further argue that they also become a sort of deeper
concept with cultural adoption, people may choose to live by the guidelines
handed down to them just as the bureaucrat, but do you, dear reader, know the
entirety of the law which hangs over you? Have you not once hesitated before an
act to consider "is this legal?"

[^2]:   I'm using this as an introductory explanation as I believe it is both
        precise and allows for a degree of further explanation. As for the real
        regularity of it, I honestly can't say; personally, as an anarchist, I
        tend towards circles of those with similar inclinations, it would
        require some analysis for me to be able to describe what arguments a
        Marxist-Leninist might employ to condemn police within a capitalist
        state but not within their so-called socialist predecessors' states
        aside from a distinction between the proclaimed aims of the laws which
        they enforce.

[^1]:   Mike Isaacson ([@VulgarEconomics][1]), "There is no law; there is only
        enforcement," Twitter, [Sep. 19, 2017][2].

Moving on, by no means assuming that the reader is wholeheartedly convinced of
the frivolity of laws by that mere few statements, to the idea of enforcement.

---

Returning to the previously shelved topic of laws.

Laws are oft justified thru the concept of "consent of the governed" in modern
quote unquote democratic states. The idea there being that as one has the choice
via elections of who dictates the laws by which they are bound (and in some less
common cases may even elect laws themselves by way of referenda) they are thus
consenting to said laws. There are numerous flaws with such a proposition,
foremost of which being that democracy as it is now is heavily restricted both
explicitly and implicitly; it would hold much more water in a system such as
direct democracy, with communal decision making and the like.

To explain further, I don't have any particular expertise in coalition
governments or constitutional monarchies, but here in the U.S. we have a two
party system, one which is culturally dichotomized but historically fluid and
functionally unitary. Reaching across the aisle is hardly the revolutionary call
for bipartisanship that is often meant to be conveyed when it is employed in
one's political announcements, if anything it is the norm. The opposition of one
party to the next here is not over fundamental positions but those of extend and
appearance. "Tough on crime" can be found in the platform of a member of either
"the left" or "the right" here, both pander to the sensibilities of those who
fear the mystical other, just as both pander to those who hold significant
social wealth. That is to say the two-party system is a broken one, in which one
is presented the choice of the devil with horns and the one with a tie.
Furthermore, it is not at all uncommon for one to encounter a frankly farcical
debate over racism in one party over the other, more often than not leading to
references to historical ties between the Democrats and the Ku Klux Klan, this
is the aforementioned historical fluidity which will inevitably be countered
with more modern references to racial policies by the Republicans. A more apt
historical point one might bring up (tho invariably one does not in these cases
as it is more an explanation of the paradigmatic differences between policies of
either side than a direct attack) would be that of desegregation. In the south,
where explicit policies were in place such that children of color would not be
allowed attendance at schools for those who were white, policies were then
created to disassemble this system and integrate the schools. In the north,
however, segregation existed in a wholly different sense, where entire
neighborhoods of impoverished people of color would be restricted to only the
schools they were given, schools of significantly lower quality than those in
the upper class white areas. As one is perceived as the overstepping of
government power and the other as simply the will of economics (despite the
clear interference of policy to ensure it as the case), one was abolished while
the other withheld.

This geographic segregation was and is not restricted to such an example. The
reader is assumedly familiar with the term and associated concept of
gerrymandering, tho most often used in reference to reserving congressional
seats for one party or the other, it is also seeped in a history of racial
divides. A devious party could either cut a population such that they would all
be contained in a single district, allowing them only one voice which would no
doubt be drowned out by the dissenters brought forth from other districts, or
divide it such that there is no hope for them to elect a voice.

And what of redlining? To take the neighborhoods filled with nonwhite peoples
and proclaim them unworthy of chances at financing? Democracy doesn't die in
darkness, it dies on the cutting board, it dies in plain view as it is drawn
and quartered, whether or not the lights are on is the question posted to the
ballot. As previously stated, it's a division of aesthetics, do you want to
watch or would you rather be off to brunch, cheerfully unaware of functions that
bring about your own standard of living.

I could ramble all day about the inner workings of this so-called democratic
state, how any given states purported level of democracy is merely its strength
in association to the great praetor of democratic norms: the U.S., just as in
the past the level of communism was to the state's allegiance to the Soviets,
but it might as well be a digression within a digression here. What is lacking
from the notion of consent of the governed is the question of whether or not one
has ever even consented to be governed in the first place. Though it was not
always the case, we are nearly all born under the state, whichever state is not
entirely of relevance at this point, it is nonetheless true that we are born
governed, we are raised governed. Any questioning of such a state of affairs is
relentlessly mocked as childishness until you either drop it or double down to
later regret.

-   Consent _to be_ governed.
    -   Human nature? The inherent desire to be ruled? Anthropology!
-   At best choice of by whom to be governed.
    -   Freedom of movement to select a state?
    -   Democracy?

[1]:    https://twitter.com/VulgarEconomics
[2]:    https://twitter.com/VulgarEconomics/status/910193356285923328
[3]:    https://twitter.com
