---
author: tjh
description: >
    (Spring, 2015) Learn about the ancient art of making art through the lens of
    the Judeo-Christian American military-industrial complex. Ever wondered what
    they call that transition stage between the squared out base of a building
    and its extravagant dome? Well, it's either "pendentive" or "squinch," and
    you'll get to learn the difference in this thrilling adventure through the
    (mostly western) human story.
layout: post
permalink: notes/aparthist
tags: notes arthistory history school
title: Notes on AP Art History (WIP)
license: BY-NC-SA
---

These notes don't actually cover the entire course, I ended up giving up some
time in. There are a lot of sketches I did in my original notes, I may try to
redo these or I may just take the screenshots and embed them. This is my second
page of transcripted notes, I'm going to try a more conventional styling for
these than I did the chemistry notes. (I'm actually on the fence about going
back to the chem ones and restyling the text)

key: <kw>keywords</kw>, <hist>historical person/event</hist>

* toc
{:toc}

## Art Before History

We start with <kw>paleolithic art</kw>, lithic meaning "stone" and paleo meaning
"like I fucking care." There are 36 chapters of this shit, I really want to get
it over with. Around 30,000 BCE, we saw an upsurge of human creativity. I really
need to find somebody to study with because this is excessively boring. This
breaks down to a basis of art and the goal of representation. In the case of
this period it's all about animals. Mostly in profile. The Apollo 11 cave has
some shit in it. After a long ass time they finally did a little thing called
variety. Moving on to Western Europe... wait, note, the <kw>Makapansgat
Pebble</kw> is a South African piece from 3,000,000 BCE that looks like a
face. <kw>Animal Facing Left</kw> is an animal facing left, in 23,000 BCE,
charcoal on stone from Namibia.

Back to Western Europe. I'll start with <kw>Hohlenstein-Stadel</kw>
wherein <kw>Human with Feline Head</kw> (ca. 30-28k BCE) was found. This is the
earliest known sculpture, from clay, and is creative. The book claims it depicts
a person with a mask but really it is of a superior alien race of Lion-Human
hybrids. The near east and Egypt were much more into this furry shit. We have no
clue what these perverted assholes had in mind but all we know is that they
thought it was important. Onto <kw>Venus of Willendorf</kw> of which the book
can't decide between Austria and Germany for the geography. Artists tended to
depict women (dubbed "Venuses") in the nude... this particular example just
looks like a blob with genitalia. 28-25k BCE overall was a bitchin' time for
artwork. This was possible a fertility image? Either way&hellip; naturalism *was
not* the goal here. Precision dating is impossible&hellip; great relationship
advice. Anyway this usually leads to no more specificity than a range of a few
thousand years. The <kw>Venus of Laussel relief</kw> (ca. 25-20k BCE) is another
prime example of misproportionate female figures carved by primitve peoples. It
was found in Laussel, France in a big ass rock.

We stick to France for yet another thrilling adventure of *Rocks*. This time
being two bison in the work duly names <kw>Two Bison</kw>, both of whom were
carves in strict profile&hellip; good for them. They were in clay against a
large free-standing rock and all this was in Le Tuc d'Audobert in fucking
France. God damn this all&hellip; so hard to concentrate when alone reading a
1,000+ page book about such boring shit.

Here's something more interesting: more bison from 12k BCE France! Ironically
this was carved into a reindeer horn. The body has the heard carved into it, but
facing the opposite direction, we call it: <kw>Bison with head turned</kw>! A
fragment from a spear thrower in La Madeleine, France. I forgot to earlier
mention the woman in Laussel was hold a bison horn.

Not satisfied with bison yet? Then I must introduce to you: <kw>Bison</kw>,
detail at a painted ceiling in the care at Altamira, Spain (ca. 12-11k BCE),
each bison being 5' long (like my dick, he joked sad and lonely). Apparently a
dude with a really long name accidentally found the first cave paintings in 1879.
Anyway, they take the same approach as 10k year older paintings: everything in
profile. Some are alive and stading while others are curled up, either dead or
giving birth (or both, nobody really knows). They don't have a common ground
line, losers.

Paleolithic <kw>cave paintings</kw> ranged from hundreds to thousands of feet
long. We've got like 200 examples now&hellip; thet were probably lit by some
stone lamps using fat or something with moss as a wick. Large flat stones were
their <kw>palettes</kw>, and brushes were made from just whatever. Studies claim
that they could paint huge-ass areas in just a day! Good for them. And I will
continue to make fun of the naming of things such as <kw>Spotted horses and
negative hand imprints</kw> from ca. 22k BCE in, you guessed it, France.
Pech-Merte specifically. Actually, most hand prints were negative in art. They
may just have been signatures. These were <kw>murals</kw> meaning that they were
on the wall.

So why did they paint so many fucking bison? Maybe the were to teach the
what to kill, or maybe the were conservationist agenda posters? Who knows,
either way I don't fucking care. Though this comes along with a better named
work: <kw>Hall of the Bulls</kw>, from the ave at Lascaux&hellip; France. The
largest bull being 11'6". Some bulls were outlined and the rest are silhouettes.

In the same cave from the same 15-13k BCE time period are more paintings in
this, the most well-known paleolithic, cave. A major point of these bulls is
the <kw>twisted perspective</kw> or <kw>compsote view</kw> whereing their bodies
are in profile but their heads face front. This was a norm, however not
universal. Some really old painting from the cave is different but my favorite
work is going to be <kw>Rhinoceros, wounded man, and disemboweled bison</kw> as
it is possible the earliest human narrative work of brutal hunting.

Moving on to <kw>neolithic</kw> art&hellip; "New Stone." Big ice things melted
in Europe and that has some correlation with the mesolithic period and therefore
the later onset of the Neolithic period&hellip; so yeah, though this did happen
differently in different places. The las phase of the Mesolithic age is marked
by puppies&hellip; now agriculture and livestock are out major food sources!
We're going to study the <kw>Ancient Near East</kw>, but what is it? Basically
the Eastern shore of the Meditarranean.

We're going to cover this area more later, but let's do some
examples! <kw>Jericho</kw> is a thing or place. It was/is on a plateau near the
Jordan river, quite wwell developed for its 9k BCE era&hellip; well, at the time
it was a village, but circa 8k BCE it went through a developmental stage I like
to call &beta;. By 7.5k BCE they has that one wall people sing about, shit was
like 5' wide and preserved at 13'&hellip; it was made of stone! #MONUMENTAL
ARCHITECTURE!

In Jordan they were building a highway in 1974 when BAM! They found neolithic
monuments. This was the <kw>Ain Ghazal</kw>, wherein there were
houses<sup>?</sup> of odly shaped rocks plastered and covered in blood&hellip;
or red paint&hellip; just red paint. Similarly they had made human figures, the
beginning on the #MONUMENTAL SCULPTURE IN THE ANCIENT NEAR EAST ca. 6750-6250
BCE. It really isn't that exciting whatsoever but i am trying so god damn hard
to enjoy this class&hellip; it might be impossible.

We continue our journey with <kw>Çatalhöyük</kw> in central Anatolian
plateau&hellip; this is so fucking exciting. Here they built on several levels,
allowing us to trace through the stages of neolithic development&hellip; if we
gave a shit. The used obsidian, the volcanic glass, because it could chip. The
more you know. They mostly built from mud and brick and supported with stone.
They had more heavily decorated areas determined by historians to be shrines.
They built statuettes out of terra cotta (baked clay), paintings were done with
a brush on a white backgrounds, odd angles were use on people, and they
introduced the concept of <kw>landscape painting</kw>. The book talks about this
for another three fucking pages.

I would skip this Europe shit and just go to bed but there's *a lot* of
vocabulary I would miss. Circa 4k BCE, monumental architecture revolved around
huge stones called <kw>megaliths</kw>, which were big and heavy.
In <kw>Newgrange</kw>, Ireland they built a <kw>passage grave</kw>, that is a
tomb with a corridor leading to the burial chamber, all coverd by
a <kw>tumulus</kw>, a burial mound, people did this all over Western Europe.
Something about a <kw>corbeled vault</kw>.

Now onto <kw>Ħaġar Qim</kw>, slightly newer and from some fucking island. This
was a maltese temple built by stacking bigass stones into <kw>courses</kw>
(horizontal rows). It's also an early example of the <kw>post-and-lintel
system</kw> for doors: two vertical posts supporting the horizontal lintel. They
even had <kw>apses</kw> which are semicurcular recesses in a room.

How could we not cover <kw>Stonehenge</kw>? With logic! Anyway, a <kw>henge</kw>
is an arrangement of megaliths into a circle, often around a ditch. This is
mostly a British thing. Stonehenge was built with <kw>trilithons</kw>,
structures made out of three stones, what else could it mean?

## The Ancient Near East

The Sumerians were pretty hype around 4k BCE, in southern modern-day Iraq. They
weren't unified, but in several city-states, god I miss those. With agriculture
steadily prociding food, manufacturing and such became more prominent. Single
leaders and counciles were apparentyl cool. The Sumerians ca 3400-3200 BCE
started using <kw>pictograms</kw>, small pictures representing words. These were
read RTL and ca 3000-2900 BCE were simplified into wedge shapes
(<kw>cuneiform</kw>). To be honest this writing of theirs is more beautiful than
mine. Also, the <kw>Epic of Gilgamesh</kw> was pretty hype.

A wonderfully preserved piece of Sumerian architecture is the <kw>White Temple,
Uruk</kw>. Utuk had a population of about 40,000. The White Temple ironically
was made of mud. It was built atop a <kw>ziggurat</kw> which is a large platform
of stuff, this one being 40' tall. A stairway leads to the top but does not end
anywhere near the door in, this is called a <kw>bent-axis</kw> plan. The sides
face cardinal directions. The <kw>cella</kw>, central hall, is not very large,
only meant for the priests and such. Like everybody else, they believed the gods
reside above our world.
