---
author: trewbot
layout: post
tags: simulators philosophy video-games
title: The Treachery of City Simulators
---

## Outline (temporary)

- anecdote about how im a fucking nerd that grew up playing simcity 2000

- examples of issues in city sims

  - cops do not function as enforcers of the state

  - approximation of democracy as demand meters

  - show how some manage to handle said issues

- restrictions on how realistic they can be

  - in theory there can be no perfect simulation of a universe within
    itself, but we aren't concerned with such accuracy

  - even given a reasonable standard of realism as to how a city operates,
    a video game probably wouldn't be able to effectively meet it (such as
    the aforementioned approximation of democracy)

  - we can argue that they are, as video games, asserting an alternative
    reality rather than mirroring our own to perfection

- we shouldn't try to make sims more realistic, rather more absurd

  - instead of having approximations of things like police just do away
    with them completely as they are functionally just a single form of
    infrastructure that the game requires you to handle

  - many people play city sims to create what is essentially a diorama of
    a place they would like to live, why not focus on this and create a
    set of rules that would create more comfortable cities by default?

  - this is the part where i talk about the kind of thing i want to see in
    such a game

    - big fuckin steampunk legs on houses so like when people move in they
      bring theyre houses with them

    - catboys, catgirls, and nyanbinary residents

    - gotta be able to chill, hang out at the park, smoke some weed, maybe
      hang out on the swing set or something

> "As you can see I play SimCity with disasters on because... well, I'm not a
wimp." &mdash; <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LUQaCoxybW8>

## Intro

When I was a kid, I was about as into video games as I am now; that is to say
not really that into them. I would say around the relevant time I was mostly
into RuneScape or maybe one of those FaceBook games about raising cats.
Regardless of whatever I was regularly into at the time, one day my grandfather
dropped off a box set of SimCity 2000. Of course, SimCity 4 was probably already
available at this time but nobody was going to buy it for me. It wasn't until I
was already hooked on the 2000 and managed to scrape together the money myself
that I eventually was able to partake in the gloriousness of SimCity 4.

I definitely put more hours into SC4 than just about anything else in my life at
the time. Indeed, I'm one of those people who grew up playing a city simulator,
going on to become obsessed with city planning, ecological solutions to
infrastructure issues, public transit, et cetera. I would load gigabytes upon
gigabytes of addons into it, which relative to games like Minecraft was rather
easy, just download the addon, unpack the .zip, and drop it into the appropriate
folder... several thousand times. I even put up with the legendary Network Addon
Mod for better road layouts and intersections.

When the new SimCity came out I had little interest. Sure true 3D was appealing,
but they ruined regions by not allowing adjacent cities and took away subways.
Cities: Skylines, however, was much more attractive. In high school I had but a
passing interest in it, by college I was regularly watching YouTube series about
it, eventually managing to have enough money available (plus it was on sale) to
get the game myself, running on a computer I bought at the university's surplus
sale. Again dumping mods and assets into it until the game was barely
recognizable to the passing observer.

Of course, over all this time I've learned a lot more about cities, cars, lawns,
government, budgeting, police, public transit, and farming, only loosely
coinciding with my experience in the games. C:S is perhaps the most flexible on
all these, with some modding much of the default features can be removed or
completely overhauled, but one could argue that perhaps this shouldn't be
necessary to be able to experiment with something like a city without cars[^1].

[^1]: Flabiliki did a video about this, I think, **link that here.**

## Issues

## Realism

## Absurdism
