---
author: uja
description: >
    Capitalism perpetuates itself through institutions of government and
    economy, but faults in these systems could lead to its collapse. However, it
    is not without countermeasures to such failures: capitalism creates a
    cultural backing for its own existence, primarily via commodification. How
    exactly does this work and how can we act to counter this when abolishing
    capitalism?
layout: post
title: Countering Commodification
tags: article atil capital commodification markets leftism
license: BY-SA
---

* toc
{:toc}

## Introduction to Commodification

Commodification, the alteration of any resources, products, ideas, et cetera so
as to be sold in a market, is fundamentally anchored to the idea of attribution
of value. In modern society, we have come to view mathematics as the basis for
our understanding of the world. This is true in not only physics, but economics
and even sociology as a whole. If we were to simply trade one item for another,
it is arguable that the two parties doing said trading are agreeing on some
value for each item in the trade. The value doesn't have to necessarily be given
a number, just Person A views Item 1 to have the same value as Person B views
Item 2 to have<sup>[1](#1)</sup>. Nonetheless, any person raised in a world that
values mathematics as a necessary interpretation of all of reality will almost
certainly attempt in some regard to define some mediating value in the
aforementioned exchange.

This may not necessarily be a negative trait; however,
it is severely flawed in the assumption that it is the item itself that is given
value by the two parties and not the exchange from the reference frame of each
individual party. In a market, it is the item being exchanged that is given some
value, as it is not being exchanged for property of another party (thus making
the exchange reliant on the value said party attributes to the property), but
currency whose value is defined by some greater collective and infrastructure.
This is, at its core, a compromise of the value the seller attributes to the
item and the social institution of value that the market upholds; whereas, in a
trade of property between two parties, each party is working to find a palatable
medium of the value they attribute to their property and that which the other
party attributes by way of exchanging it for property of the party that both
parties hold equal value to from their respective perspectives.

The buyer in a
market is not putting up their property to be traded with your property, at
least not in the immediate sense, and so there is no matching of attributed
value. Primarily, the value for which an item is sold in a market is based on
prediction, or "speculation," in this specific instance<sup>[2](#2)</sup>
the seller must predict what price the sellers of items for which they would be
otherwise willing to trade for the item offered by this seller would sell their
items for in this same market. Of course, historically one could easily make the
argument that this is all mere pragmatism, must the dairy farmer go each to the
general store owner, the cobbler, the blacksmith, et cetera and bargain with
each, offering up milk that could otherwise be sold for a shared currency that
could then be used to buy items from each of the aforementioned sellers? No,
especially not in the modern system of international markets, but still this
system of commodification has many undesirable side effects that must be
explored and countered.

## Extent in Modern Markets

The extent of the problem with commodification cannot be grasped with the
examples put forth above, such examples are built on the assumption of property,
autonomy, control, access, ownership, and, to an extent, the universality of
people's ability to compromise on value<sup>[3](#3)</sup>.

In a system wherein a capitalist class, the "bourgeoisie" as they are often
called, exists, this class may choose whether or not to themselves be
commodified, while those of any other class that does not bear any control over
the economy are simply commodified by default. One particularly stark
manifestation of this idea can be found in a slave trade: those in the slave
class are a literal commodity, they are bought and they are sold; however, the
slave traders, the class controlling the trade, is not subject to the same
treatment. More simply put, the rich may sell themselves while everyone else is
forced to do so. Certainly, most reading this have never been sold in a slave
trade and so the previous example may be a bit out of their scope, but
nonetheless the idea remains true in the day to day life of the average person
today.

## Philosophical Implications

## Necessity of Countering Commodification

## Essence of Avoidance

Where in work one's livelihood is withheld at the expense of their labor,
commodification makes that livelihood into a form of labor; while it may be
difficult to become completely apart of the system of commodification, a
reasonable step in such a direction would be to ensure that all commodification
of the self is deliberate rather than enforced upon the self.

## Practical Applications

---

## Footnotes

<sup><a name="1">1</a></sup> Theoretically, if trades were made in such a system
between three parties (Persons A, B, and C), where Person A trades Item 1 for
Person B's Item 2, Person B trades Person A's original Item 1 for Person C's
Item 3, and finally Person A requests a trade to take back their Item 1 from
Person C, Person C could deny said trade on account of them valuing Item 1
higher than Item 2 (which Person A now has). That is to say that the transitive
property does not necessarily apply in this system, as each trade is itself a
new context in which each item is valued by the parties that hold and request
them. The change in value can be attributed to change in circumstance, Person C
may inherently value anything that they received from Person B as a higher value
than anything they received from Person A by default. It could also be that over
the time between trades Person C found Item 1 very useful and therefore now
attributes higher value to it. If the circumstances are changed slightly such
that it is Person C who is attempting to trade Item 1 back to Person A for Item
2, in such a case the argument could be made that Person A, having been willing
to trade away Item 1 to begin with, has no interest in once again having Item 1.

<sup><a name="2">2</a></sup> Speculation is also the source of value in other
instances within a market system, such as stocks being bought and sold based on
the assumed or predicted value of the company backing them.

<sup><a name="3">3</a></sup> ADD A NOTE OR SOMETHING HERE!!!

## Bibliography

1. Black, B. (2009). *The Abolition of Work*. Retrieved from:
[primitivism.com](http://www.primitivism.com/abolition.htm)
([mirror](https://goo.gl/3MvB1n))

1. Gillis, W. (2010). *Stress, Labor & Play.* Retrieved from:
[humaniterations.net](https://humaniterations.net/2010/05/14/stress-labor-play/)

1. Ross, C. (2017). *Different Types of Activity*. Retrieved from:
[never-work.com](https://never-work.com/2017/09/07/different-types-of-activity/)
