---
author: uja
description: >
    Oops! I wrote another thing about death! This time rather than picking apart
    traditional descriptions of death, I'm going to be introducing a more modern
    take on the whole idea.
layout: post
license: BY-SA
title: Death isn't real and neither are you
tags: metaphysics death philosophy manyworlds
---

For any of this to make sense, we're going to have to describe some basic
assumptions about the nature of reality, consciousness, and how the two
interact. Reality will be assumed to follow that which is described in the Many
Worlds Interpretation of Quantum Mechanics (MWI), or at least one interpretation
of that description. Here this means that all outcomes of a probabilistic system
exist in a superposition, that is to say that for every outcome of a situation
there exists a branching world wherein this is the outcome realized. For the
purposes of this discussion we will be talking about large, discrete steps in
time and very limited numbers of outcomes. Consciousness will be assumes to be
inherent in your existence and to span across these branching worlds as an
observer of each world. Observation will be the way in which we will define the
branching of worlds, such that worlds only exist if they can be observed by a
consciousness.

One idea that I will leave unclear so as to leave room for further discussion is
the extent to which biology can dictate conscious observation. Observation can
be split by biology into sensation and perception; typically we only consciously
observe perception, but perception only exists as the filtration and
augmentation sensation. The brain must receive signals to process in order to
create a perception, but these do not necessarily exist to the conscious mind
and so can be argued to not be observed. Nonetheless, these signals dictate the
perception that is created and so can be said to be the base layer of which
perception is an abstraction. However, some interaction will need to be clearly
defined, specifically the idea of memory. While there is plenty to debate in
regards to whether an experience is truly valid if there is no memory of it that
can be accessed by the consciousness, in this case we will be assuming that any
experience which cannot be remembered will not exist in the reality defined by
said consciousness. It should also be made clear, for completeness, that memory
is stored in the brain, a physical entity that may exist in superposition across
multiple words but which can only act in a given world as a being in a singular
state.

A context is necessary to fully discuss the concept of death within, so a system
of timelines and superpositions will be defined. Any given state that can be
observed by a consciousness (i.e. a world) will be denoted
$\Psi_{\psi_1,\psi_2,\psi_3...}$, where $\psi_n$ is an index of the outcome of
the probabilistic decision $n$. This would mean that after some initial decision
our universe's state will be a superposition of $\Psi_1$, $\Psi_2$, $\Psi_3$,
etc. After the next decision along the timeline defined by $\Psi_1$, $\Psi_1$
will become a superposition of $\Psi_{1,1}$, $\Psi_{1,2}$, $\Psi_{1,3}$, etc.
This essentially defines an n-dimensional matrix of states derived from a
singular origin point which we will refer to as $\Psi_0$. As previously
mentioned, consciousness spans parallel/simultaneous worlds, we will define each
discrete step in time as the creation of a new decision such that all states
which are denoted with a given number of subscripts will exist simultaneously.
Since $\Psi_0$ evolves into the superposition of states $\Psi_n$ for all values
of $n$ and the conscious observer after the first discrete step in time spans
all states $\Psi_n$, it can be said that this consciousness encompasses all that
is yielded from $\Psi_0$ when time acts upon it. Furthermore, any state $\Psi_n$
will evolve into a superposition of all states $\Psi_{n,m}$ after the second
step in time (for convenience we can refer to this as $t=2$), at which point the
conscious observer will span all that is yielded from any state $\Psi_n$ when
time acts upon it. These ideas combined suggest that consciousness defined in
this matter will experience all possible outcomes propagated from $\Psi_0$; this
can be considered a deterministic system.
