---
author: th
layout: post
title: Gambling in a Post-Capitalist Society
tags: capitalism leftism
---

Under the assumption of a pure capitalist system, that is one in which the
interaction between one human and another is always defined as a monetary
interaction, the idea of gambling does not carry any objective qualms. The
capital earned by each member of society is theirs to do with it as they wish,
regardless of whether or not they decide to use said capital to monetize random
probabilities as is the case with gambling.

If, however, we decide that capital is merely an abstract metric for the social
interactions between each individual within a society, then the concept becomes
less clear. What, exactly, would one be gambling under such a system? If money
is not something to be obtained, but rather a measurement of some other thing,
than said thing is that which would be gambled. Say we assume that a particular
laborer works three hours to earn meals for his family the next day. What he has
to bet here is his labor against the food of whoever has control of that
resource. Betting on a 2:1 odds and winning would yield him two days worth of
food for those same three hours, whereas a loss would be interpreted as him
needing to work six hours to obtain the same amount of food.

Now suppose we create a purely socialist system in which there is no concept of
capital. Each worker is expected to do their duties as designated by their
superiors and is fed, educated, and housed by the resources of the whole
society. There is no metric by which one would measure the value of any hours of
work or days of food, there is no dollar for the worker to earn or to spend. In
this instance what is there for one to gamble? Would one need to take an even
broader interpretation of capital to mean ones lifespan? Or would there simply
be no need for the concept of gambling in this system?

Assuming that the core reason for which one gambles is to gain a capital
advantage, then in a system without capital perhaps there would be no need for
gambling. Of course, one could argue that many find enjoyment in gambling; this
may be due to tradition, boredom, or a long running addiction to the concept
formed throughout years of attempting to use it to their advantage in a harsh
capitalist environment.
