---
author: una
description: >
    I don't know what anything means and everyone keeps expecting me to
    understand what they're talking about. So, here's some musings on the
    taxonomy of relationships.
layout: post
tags: philosophy relationships self
title: どういう意味ですか!?
---

**Content/trigger warning: uncensored slurs.**

A few years back, I was in a voice call with a few folks from the internet and
offhandedly said "I don't really believe in friends." The immediate response
was, of course: "wow, edgy." Is it, though? Is that edgy? What is edgy?

Edgy is an aesthetic, a decorum (or lack thereof). If I were to ask someone if
4chan's /b/ board is edgier than Twitter, they'd probably instantly say that is
the case. Any place where one can take a quick glance and find themselves
subjected to others pathologizing gender identities (often while quite vocally
fetishizing trans women), openly calling for eugenics, uncritically citing the
life and work of Nazis, and shouting slurs nonstop seems to be colloquially
termed "edgy." The joke is that I don't really know which site I was talking
about with those examples, because they're true for both but in one case it's
almost always anonymous and in the other almost always pseudonymous (though
surprisingly frequently it isn't). All that can be really gathered here is that
"trannies are mentally ill" is edgier than paraphrasing DSM entries or calling
someone a "newfag" is edgier than "smooth brain."

Why? What's the difference there, really? As with many concepts, the distinction
lies at a cultural level. People know what is edgy but if you asked them to
define it they would struggle to do so in a manner that is as inclusive or
exclusive as the concept they're actually trying to describe. For example,
describe a chair? No, that's a horse.[^1]

[^1]:   Yes, this is a reference to that time Graham Linehan was being
        transphobic... well, [one of the times.][1]

Definitions are hard, but we _know what things mean_... usually. Communication
requires some level of agreement, much of that agreement is contextual in an
immediate sense and much of it is cultural. If I were to assert that the sky is
yellow[^2], your reaction would really depend on the situation. If you were here
with me (if I wasn't so god damn alone) you might say "ah, that it is" as you
would have the contextual knowledge that I'm merely pointing out a fact of our
surroundings. Since you're not, you would assume I'm questioning a cultural
assumption, that I'm making a mockery of the assumption of universal color
perception.

[^2]:   This was going to be a reference to [blue-green distinctions][2], but...
        light pollution... well, actually, right now the sky is actually blue. A
        rare event here these days: a clear sky! Doesn't matter, tho, my
        curtains are closed and nobody is here to point out any errors in my
        assessment anyway.

This is a particularly fun example due to the way it shows that surroundings
aren't always subordinate to culture in terms of contexts. I'd like to make sure
that it's clear that such a thing can happen so I can talk about cases where
they are essentially hierarchical without the assumption of universality. We
wouldn't want that, now, would we? てへ～[^3]

[^3]:   Trust me, I'm actually giggling. Not at all crying while listening to
        old Mars Argo songs. Kind of fucked up how when you let machines do
        automatic playlists they throw "Trust Fund" by Titanic Sinclair into the
        mix... y'know, that song where he's just mocking Mars Argo.

Now I can safely return to the introductory point: I don't believe in friends,
but I can't disagree if someone tells me we're friends. In this case, our
relationship is contextually subordinate to the culture when it comes to
categorization. "Friends" means something, and to be able to declare that the
relationship between two people is that of friendship, you'd certainly need to
know what that something is. Honestly, I have no fucking clue what it is.

In psychiatry,[^4] abstract concepts are proven to exist via factor analysis.
Essentially, covariances between a number of factors are used to mathematically
prove that there is something that exists on a more abstract level. We can read
this as "since thing A coincides with thing B so much, there must be a deeper
meaning here," but that isn't really relevant here. The actual relevance here is
that there are models by which to seemingly define those concepts that we would
struggle to put into words left on our own. Could we define friendship this way?
Have thousands of people take standardized questionnaires about their
relationships and model the relations between their answers to pin down what
they mean when they call people friends? Maybe.[^5] But even then we would need
a theoretical model off of which to base the tests, what questions would we even
ask?

[^4]:   Probably not just in psychiatry, but I only know what I know and I'm not
        going to do any research on this. Kill me if you care, bitch.

[^5]:   I mean, _I'm_ definitely not going to do that, I don't have enough
        friends to administer the tests, lol.

[1]:    https://twitter.com/Glinner/status/1015984460678955014
[2]:    https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Blue%E2%80%93green_distinction_in_language
