---
author: trewbot
layout: post
tags: ...
title: Minimalism & Separation of Aesthetic from Capital
---

There are a few different interpretations of what minimalism is, meaning
different things in the different contexts of painting or music. The particular
form of minimalism discussed hereafter is the very broad idea of a minimalist
lifestyle. More exactly, what will be discussed here is a pure, minimalist
approach to the minimalist lifestyle, based on a philosophy that deviates from
many mainstream minimalist ideals.

Classically, when somebody claims to be living a minimalist lifestyle, it is
often assumed (with at least a decent grounding) that they own fairly few items,
living mostly off the land or on the move. This lifestyle is perhaps the most
extreme case; however, being a literal interpretation of owning only what is
needed to survive and nothing more. Some other interpretations are more
comfortable to transition to allow the ownership of much more, but still hold
true to counteracting frivolity in life. The Minimalists, a pair of writers who
run a blog and podcast about this very topic, have shown in their lifestyles a
range from living out of a travelling bag to a well laid out brick apartment.
While they have their own reasons to support an ideology of anti-consumerism and
material minimalism, their ideas still have a basis in a perhaps incorrect
assumption: to engage in consumerism is to detract from a life of meaning. The
result of this is by no means bad, any lifestyle that promotes one’s own
happiness without detracting from that of others should never be considered
negative. On the other hand, as is made very clear in their documentary
Minimalism: A Documentary About the Important Things, their aesthetic is based
entirely on a desire to negate the impact of consumerism in their lives.

It is fair to assume that the hatred of consumerism is also a hatred of
capitalism, as the former is a direct result of the latter. Meaning that this
form of minimalism’s foundation is in the idea that capitalism must be destroyed
by simply removing it from people’s lives. In essence, this destructivist
idealism calls for the removal of modern society, the detraction of modern
technologies and conveniences, a second dark age. Alternatively, capitalism
ought to be replaced once it has finally run out of its apparent infinite
stamina, something that must be forced by the will of the people rather than
waited out. One’s interpretations of minimalism and subsequent implementation of
it as a lifestyle should reflect this more accelerationist fight against the
oppression that is common in modern society.

Arguably, denying the very basis of what is now known as minimalism would mean
denying minimalism itself. However, what is described here will not be the
ideological lifestyle of minimalism, rather it will be an aesthetic lifestyle of
minimalism. A life with a completely separate, and perhaps opposing, ideology
that may still appear to be the same. For a modern minimalist to implement this
new ideology, it may require no actual lifestyle changes, but would mean
changing the inflection and intention with which their ongoing activities are
carried out.

The foremost requirement to further this discussion is to clarify the meaning of
aesthetic. This may be repetitive depending on context, but also necessary due
to recent cultural movements that may have construed the meaning of this
concept. Aesthetic is that which is enjoyed for nothing other than its own
enjoyment, something detached from the rest of reality, whose enjoyment has no
effect on the outside world.
