---
author: uja
layout: post
license: BY-NC-SA
tags: fiction scifi
---

Enjoying your job is a scam. A means by which the system will exploit your
emotions and ultimately suck you dry of them. So, it makes no sense to go for a
job you enjoy just to eventually hate it, go for jobs you're good at; if you're
just going to be miserable at work anyway, might as well make enough money out
of it to enjoy life otherwise. Of course, you don't *always* get the jobs you're
good at, sometimes you just have to take what's available. I'm not trying to
turn this into a less on economics or job markets, I'm just trying to justify
how I ended up where I am in life. I never had very many friends; family was
never that big in my life either. Point is: this was bound to happen. I was just
destined for some extremely isolated job, I've no attachments and they're
available in abundance.

To be clear, I'm technically qualified for my job, but to say I'm good at it is
a stretch. I got my Master's in Xenoanthropolgy from Eunostos Academy of
Colonial Studies. I'd originally went to university for xenoarcheology, but one
thing led to another, you know how it goes. Regardless, when the intervention
programs began, I was perfectly suited for a position in them... except I'm not
very good with children, so there's that with which I have to deal.

...

"It's rather hard to burn bridges when you're stranded on an island," I told
them.

## Notes

1. "Ulp" is a reading of $\mathrm{U}\ell_{\mathrm{P}}$, an abbreviation
of "udeka-Planck length" where udeka- is the non-standard SI prefix for
10<sup>36</sup> and Planck length is defined as $\sqrt{\hbar
\mathrm{G}/\mathrm{c}^3}$ (about 1.616229 &times; 10<sup>âˆ’35</sup>m) such that
1 Ulp is about 16.2m.
