---
layout: post
license: BY-NC-ND
series: hakkenteki
title: Юлия 井上
---

<table class="sidebar">
    <thead><tr><th colspan="2">
        <strong>Юлия 井上</strong><br/>
        <em>Yulia Inoue</em><br/>
    </th></tr></thead>
    <tr><td><b>Pronouns</b></td><td>they/them<br>内 (うち)</td></tr>
    <tr><td><b>Born</b></td><td>
        June 10, 2131 (age 24)<br/>
        Welles, Xanthe-Margaritifer
    </td></tr>
    <tr><td><b>Height</b></td><td>157cm (5 ft 2 in)</td></tr>
    <tr class="tsection"><td colspan="2">
        <strong>Academics</strong>
    </td></tr>
    <tr><td><b>Education</b></td><td>
        University of Ravi-Da Vinci (BS)
        Ravi Imperial College (MS, PhD)
    </td></tr>
    <tr><td><b>Thesis</b></td><td>
        <i>Planetary Field Stimulation and its Defense Applications</i>
    </td></tr>
    <tr><td><b>Discipline(s)</b></td><td>
        Quantum mechanics, Computational astrophysics, Astrophysical magnetic
        fields, Computational neuroscience, Geoengineering
    </td></tr>
    <tr><td><b>Employer</b></td><td>
        Xanthe-Margaritifer Army-Electromagnetic Defense Engineering Corps
        (XaMrA-EmDEC)
    </td></tr>
    <tr><td><b>Occupation</b></td><td>
        Electromagnetic Risk Aversion Technician (ERAT)<br/>
        電磁的危険回避技師 (ジヒシ)
    </td></tr>
    <tr><td><b>Rank</b></td><td>
        Lieutenant Colonel<br/>
        2等<a href="https://jisho.org/search/磁">磁</a>佐
        (<a href="https://ja.wikipedia.org/wiki/中佐">中佐</a>)
    </td></tr>
    <tr class="tsection"><td colspan="2">
        <strong>Signature</strong>
    </td></tr>
    <tr><td colspan="2">
        <img class="__light"
            src="/assets/img/hkt/inoue-signature.png"/>
        <img class="__dark"
            src="/assets/img/hkt/inoue-signature-inverted.png"/>
    </td></tr>
</table>

**Yulia Inoue** (Юлия 井上 _Yuliya Inoue_, born June 10, 2131) is a Martian
mathematician, computer scientist, physicist, and engineer. Inoue was a key
contributor to the development of the Electromagnetic Defense System on Mars
and continues to work as a mid-level technician maintaining the System. Though
their thesis _Planetary Field Stimulation and its Defense Applications_ was the
foundation for the System's architecture, Inoue was not selected for the EM
Defense Command.

As a technician, Inoue continues development of large scale quantum field
simulations. This research aids in continued updates to the System, but has also
had influence on virtual reality systems despite being nearly completely
classified for planetary and national security.

- toc
{:toc}

## Life

### Family

Inoue was born in Welles, Xanthe-Margaritifer Federation, to parents Vasily
Shoktorov (Василий Шахтёров) and Shizuko Inoue (井上 静子). Their mother,
Shizuko, came from the Inoue family, which controls 15% of interplanetary
trade. She met Vasily, the son of Russian migrants to Mars, in high school
where the two became sweethearts. The Inoue family did not approve of their
relationship as Vasily's family were mainly blue collar iron workers, but were
eventually convinced by his dedication to supporting Shizuko. As part of the
conditions for allowing them to elope, Vasily took on the Inoue name and
trained to work for the family after graduating high school.

Despite all this, Vasily's position in the Inoue company was kept simply as a
district manager. Shizuko was cut off from the family's funds and left to live
off Vasily's salary. When Yulia was born, this situation remained for the most
part; however, since they were assigned male at birth, Shizuko petitioned her
family to allow Inoue to inherit the position in the company originally
intended for Shizuko's husband would have had she agreed to an arranged
marriage. This arrangement was ultimately approved, and so Shizuko and Vasily
raised Inoue with the intent of having them inherit an executive role when they
came of age.

### University

16 entered school, 19 received BS, 22 finished PhD

At the age of 17, Inoue came out to their parents about their identity and
intent to transition. Their father reacted harshly and both of their parents
cut ties, kicking Inoue out of their home. URDV did not include student housing
with tuition, and as a student Inoue was unable to afford the cost of what
housing was available, forcing them to squat in an unused level of one of the
school's dormitories. Inoue has noted that their mother was not as taken aback
by this even as their father, but did not stop him from pushing them away,
likely capitulating to pressures from her family whom still scorned her for her
marriage and may have completely cut her out had she accepted Inoue. Despite
all this, Inoue kept their family name.

Inoue took the name Юлия (Yulia) as the feminine form of their given name,
Джулиус (Julius), keeping the unique Cyrillic and kanji stylization of their
birth name.[^1]

[^1]:   This character description is a work of fiction. Details such as this
        are included to describe the character in full detail, publishing such
        details about real people is unforgivable without their permission.
        While this file is formatted much like a Wikipedia article, the exact
        contents herein should not be paralleled.

### Career

## Appearance

### Yunovo Arc

The school where Yulia meets Ilya has specified men's and women's uniforms, but
the policy merely states that all students must wear clothes designated by the
uniform code and not that they must be worn by the intended gender. Yulia takes
this a step further and mixes parts of the two, such as wearing the tie from the
men's uniform and the skirt from the women's.

## Personality

## Author's Notes

Inoue is modeled after my own anxieties, they're the person I'm worried I would
become if I simply got my way. I don't mean to say that they are inherently bad
because of this, but rather that they act in ways that I often want to but am
held back by fear of the possible consequences. They're selfish, but
accomplished and not always hated for it, even if they deserve it at times.

Some inspiration was drawn from Homura Akemi from Madoka Magica, Papika from
Flip Flappers, Haruhi Suzumiya from The Melancholy of Haruhi Suzumiya, and Alan
Turing. There is also an overall influence from Serial Experiments Lain, but
Yulia is not directly comparable to Lain. Their family lineage is also in part
inspired by Takeshi Kovacs from Altered Carbon, but with their father being of
Russian rather than Hungarian descent.

Their family name is taken from a Code Geass side character, [Inoue Naomi][1].

[1]:    https://codegeass.fandom.com/wiki/Naomi_Inoue
